# Directory Traversal

Directory traversal is controlled by the `pageMode` property of a context object. There are currently five page modes:

## `directory`

This is the default behavior. In this mode each directory is considered to be its own page, and the source of the page content is the file defined by the `pageSource` property of the context object

## `file`

In this mode, pages are "discovered" in two ways. First, the `pageSource` property, which will provide the content for the page at the root of whatever directory the context file is in. The rest of the pages are discovered with the `pagePattern` property, which is a glob pattern. Note that only files in the directory currently being processed will be matched. Each file matched by the glob pattern will become its own page, and the file extension will be stripped (a file at `blog/post-about-cats.md` would be outputted as `blog/post-about-cats/`).

## `asset`

In this mode, rather than discovering pages, all files matched by `pagePattern` are treated as assets and copied to the output directory as-is (the `pageSource` property is ignored here).

## `mock`

If this page mode is encountered directory traversal is paused and the functioned that's pointed to by the `mockGenerator` property is called. This function creates a mock file system that's overlayed on the real file system. (More detail can be found... elsewhere... eventually...).

## `handoff`

A directory in this mode is simply handled by the function pointed at by the `handoffHandler` property, although any sub-directories in the source tree are still added. This is useful if you want some page (or pages) of your website to be generated by something other than Tartan. The handler is simply called with an output directory and then left to it's own devices.
